View Transitions blog post (#1123)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/future-of-astro-zero-js-view-transitions.mdx

		</video>
		<figcaption class="text-center text-sm my-4">
			Watch <a href="https://twitter.com/joebell_/status/1688167865961037825">Joe Bell</a> demo view transitions.
		</figcaption>
	</figure>
	<figure>
		<video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="border border-neutral-600 rounded">
			<source src="/assets/blog/astro-3/demo-3.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
		</video>
		<figcaption class="text-center text-sm my-4">
			Try out this <a href="https://astro-records.pages.dev/">live demo</a> by <a href="https://twitter.com/charca">Maxi Ferreira</a>.
		</figcaption>
	</figure>
</div>

Our bet was that the major web browsers would continue to improve and one day we could remove our JavaScript router shim entirely. One day, when a user clicked a link, that click could trigger a transition animation in the browser as part of its normal flow from page to page.

I'm excited to announce that that day has finally arrived. Chrome 126 (released last week) and Microsoft Edge 126 (releasing this week) both support "cross-document view transitions" unlocking **zero-JavaScript view transitions** in Astro.

## Demo

> Both Chrome and Edge offer staggered rollout of new versions, so check that your browser is running 126 before running the demo. In chrome, you can see your current version at `chrome://settings/help`.

Reviewer: Chrome's stable will be June 25th, not sure if that's worth mentioning or not: https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule

Author: <img width="396" alt="Screen Shot 2024-06-11 at 3 31 15 PM" src="https://github.com/withastro/astro.build/assets/622227/9c24170b-f9da-4883-b20a-828a5d300d2b">

That's Chrome OS! Chrome Browser was technically last week but then today is the first day that most people get access via auto-upgrade rollout behavior.

Author: But I'll add a note that auto-upgrading may not be enough to get access.

Reviewer: Oops, my bad. Ok, I just noticed that I haven't received it yet and figured it was the gradual rollout.

Author: no problem, I had the same thought. Rewritten to be more explicit on this

> Both Chrome and Edge offer staggered rollout of new versions, so check that your browser is running 126 before running the demo. In chrome, you can see your current version at `chrome://settings/help`.

Reviewer 2: capitalization nit
```suggestion
Both Chrome and Edge offer staggered rollout of new versions, so check that your browser is running 126 before running the demo. In Chrome, you can see your current version at `chrome://settings/help`.
```

Open the [astro-zerojs-transitions.vercel.app](https://astro-zerojs-transitions.vercel.app/) demo to experience zero-JavaScript view transitions in your browser. You can explore your browser's Network Panel to verify that every link click triggers a full page load, and zero JavaScript is being sent to the browser to run these animations. If your browser supports it, the demo should look like this:

<figure  class="my-10">
  <video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="border border-neutral-600 rounded">
    <source src="/assets/blog/future-of-astro/spotify-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
    Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
  </video>
  <figcaption class="text-center text-sm my-4">
    <a href="https://x.com/astrodotbuild/status/1698534383970656497">Spotify clone</a> built with Astro View Transitions
  </figcaption>
</figure>
 
If your browser does not support the latest cross-domain view transitions, then your website will still run and display content as expected. However, the animations will be disabled and page navigation will behave like any other navigation in your browser (without animation).

> ## Upgrade
> 
> To switch to the native new View Transition API, it’s as simple as adding the `@view-transition` at-rule to your website. Here’s all the CSS you need:
> 
> ```css
> @view-transition {
>   navigation: auto;
> }
> ```
> 
> To enable cross-document view transitions, both "ends" of the transition must include this rule. A shared page layout component can be a good place to add this to your codebase.
> 
> If you were already using Astro View Transitions powered by our `<ViewTransitions />` component, then you are now safe to remove that component as well. This will remove the injected backwards-compatible JavaScript router from your page, reducing the overall complexity of your client-side code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Enable

To take advantage of the native new View Transition API, it’s as simple as adding the `@view-transition` at-rule to your website. Here’s all the CSS you need:

```css
@view-transition {
  navigation: auto;
}
```

To enable cross-document view transitions, both "ends" of the transition must include this rule. A shared page layout component can be a good place to add this to your codebase.

## Upgrade

If you were already using Astro View Transitions powered by our `<ViewTransitions />` component, then it is now safe to remove that component and replace it with the at-rule. This will remove the injected backwards-compatible JavaScript router from your page, reducing the overall complexity of your client-side code.
```
I think there are two different stories here, and I think it makes sense to separate them. Not everyone was using the View Transitions component, and it's not a "as simple as adding" if you were.

```diff
---
- import { ViewTransitions } from "astro:transitions";
---
<head>
-  <ViewTransitions fallback="none" />
+  <style>
+    @view-transition {
+      navigation: auto;
+    }
+  <style>
</head>
```

If you would still like your view transitions to run in older browsers, you are also welcome to keep using our backwards-compatible `<ViewTransitions />` component. You can migrate whenever you are ready. We have no plans to remove support for the `<ViewTransitions />` component at this time.

> ## What about transition:persist?

Reviewer 2: If I am not mistaken when we mention pieces of code in headings like this, we tend to also use inline code blocks for them.
```suggestion
## What about `transition:persist`?
```

Author: Ah, I wasn't sure if we still used them in headings, since they can look a bit weird. I'm fine with either!

[Persistent element transitions](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/view-transitions/#maintaining-state) became a popular feature in Astro. The `transition:persist` directive told Astro to persist an element across navigation without interrupting or disrupting it's state. This enabled UI like audio and video players to continue to play across pages, like in <a href="https://twitter.com/charca">Maxi Ferreira's</a> <a href="https://astro-records.pages.dev/">music player demo</a>.

> Unfortunately, this feature is not yet supported by native cross-document navigation in the browser. Native support for persistent audio and video players may be coming  in the future, but in the meantime you can continue to use our `<ViewTransitions />` component if you need this additional functionality.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, this feature is not yet supported by native cross-document navigation in the browser. Native support for persistent audio and video players may be coming in the future, but in the meantime you can continue to use our `<ViewTransitions />` component if you need this additional functionality.
```

### The Future of Astro

> We believe this is one of the most significant advancements to come out of Chromium and the browser spec process in recent memory. Following links across websites is a fundamental behavior of the web, and this represents the largest meaningful change in recent memory to how that behavior works.

Reviewer 3: "Following links across websites" sounds like an odd turn of phrase, maybe? And if it's a fundamental behaviour, how is a brand new, meaningful change?

Author: haha good catch, I'll rewrite.

> Developers can take advantage of this feature today or wait as it rolls out to more users. Whenever you're ready, it’s essentially a one-line change of CSS that requires no architectural overhaul to your existing Astro code to enable. To get started, you can learn more about [Astro View Transitions](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/view-transitions). We will be updating our documentation over the next few weeks to point developers to these [new native browser APIs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/view-transitions).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Developers can take advantage of this feature today or wait as it rolls out to more users. Whenever you're ready, it’s essentially a one-line addition of CSS that requires no architectural overhaul to your existing Astro code to enable. To get started, you can learn more about [Astro View Transitions](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/view-transitions). We will be updating our documentation over the next few weeks to include using these [new native browser APIs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/view-transitions).
```
I do like "addition" vs change because it's very likely they don't have anything like this in their code already?

"pointing them to" some external resources sounds a bit like "go away, you're their problem now, we absolve ourselves". So, a more gentle, assuring edit perhaps?

Also, this does negate any effort in removing the previous VT components they may have around their project, so just making you aware of that. (I would agree, though, that that doesn't represent an *architectural* change... just some tidying/housekeeping. BUT, there may still be some for whom stripping out their existing components feels like not *zero* work.)

		</video>
		<figcaption class="text-center text-sm my-4">
			Watch <a href="https://twitter.com/joebell_/status/1688167865961037825">Joe Bell</a> demo view transitions.
		</figcaption>
	</figure>
	<figure>
		<video autoplay loop muted playsinline class="border border-neutral-600 rounded">
			<source src="/assets/blog/astro-3/demo-3.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
			Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos.
		</video>
		<figcaption class="text-center text-sm my-4">
			Try out this <a href="https://astro-records.pages.dev/">live demo</a> by <a href="https://twitter.com/charca">Maxi Ferreira</a>.
		</figcaption>
	</figure>
</div>

Our bet was that the major web browsers would continue to improve and one day we could remove our JavaScript router shim entirely. One day, when a user clicked a link, that click could trigger a transition animation in the browser as part of its normal flow from page to page.

I'm excited to announce that that day has finally arrived. Chrome 126 (released last week) and Microsoft Edge 126 (releasing this week) both support "cross-document view transitions" unlocking **zero-JavaScript view transitions** in Astro.

## Demo

> *Both Chrome and Edge rollout new browser versions gradually, so check that you are on version 126 before running the demo. In Chrome, you can see your current version at `chrome://settings/help`. If an upgrade isn't available yet for your browser, check back later or use a [Beta](https://www.google.com/chrome/beta/) or [Canary](https://www.google.com/chrome/canary/) release channel instead.*

Reviewer 2: nit: roll out should be two words here.
```suggestion
*Both Chrome and Edge roll out new browser versions gradually, so check that you are on version 126 before running the demo. In Chrome, you can see your current version at `chrome://settings/help`. If an upgrade isn't available yet for your browser, check back later or use a [Beta](https://www.google.com/chrome/beta/) or [Canary](https://www.google.com/chrome/canary/) release channel instead.*
```

> Open the <a href="https://astro-zerojs-transitions.vercel.app/" target="_blank">astro-zerojs-transitions.vercel.app</a> demo to experience zero-JavaScript view transitions in your browser. You can explore your browser's Network Panel to verify that every link click triggers a full page load, and zero JavaScript is being sent to the browser. If your browser supports it, the demo should look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the <a href="https://astro-zerojs-transitions.vercel.app/" target="_blank">astro-zerojs-transitions.vercel.app</a> demo to experience zero-JavaScript view transitions in your browser. You can explore your browser's Network Panel to verify that every link click triggers a full page load and that zero JavaScript is being sent to the browser. If your browser supports it, the demo should look like this:
```

```diff
---
- import { ViewTransitions } from "astro:transitions";
---
<head>
-  <ViewTransitions fallback="none" />
+  <style>
+    @view-transition {
+      navigation: auto;
+    }
+  <style>
</head>
```

If you would still like your view transitions to run in older browsers, you are welcome to keep using our backwards-compatible `<ViewTransitions />` component instead. You can migrate whenever you are ready. We have no plans to remove support for the `<ViewTransitions />` component at this time.

## What about `transition:persist`?

[Persistent element transitions](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/view-transitions/#maintaining-state) became a popular feature in Astro. The `transition:persist` directive told Astro to persist an element across navigation without interrupting or disrupting its state. This enabled UI like audio and video players to continue to play across pages, like in <a href="https://twitter.com/charca">Maxi Ferreira's</a> <a href="https://astro-records.pages.dev/">music player demo</a>.

> Unfortunately, this feature is not yet supported by native cross-document navigation in the browser. Native support for persistent audio and video players may be coming in the future, but in the meantime you can continue to use our `<ViewTransitions />` component if you need this additional functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, this feature is not yet supported by native cross-document navigation in the browser. Native support for persistent audio and video players may be coming in the future, but in the meantime, you can continue to use our `<ViewTransitions />` component if you need this additional functionality.
```
